- [Instructor] Java 14 introduced several new features
and preview features to the language
that we'll explore in this lesson.
One preview feature is records.
Records help us cut down on boilerplate code
found in domain classes.
If we take a look at this simple Cat class,
you'll notice it's about 60 lines of code,
just for two fields, a constructor, some accessors,
a hashcode, an equals method and a two string method.
Using a record, we can get rid of all this code
and automatically generate these members.
So I'm going to go ahead and delete our Cat class
and then we're going to declare a record.
So the first thing that we need to do
is specify an access modifier
and then we use the record type
and then specify the name of our record.
In this case, Cat.
Then we're going to specify the fields
that we would like on our record
and then we simply end the record with an open
and closing curly brace.
That's all it takes
and we're going to have all those members,
such as the hashcode method
and the equals method generated for us.
We can see that in action if we take a look
at our unit test.
So here you'll see that I create two records
and then I'm able to use the two string method
as well as our accessors, the hashcode method
and then the equals method.
Okay, so let's launch our unit test
and if we take a look you can see that it passes.
So records are an exciting new preview feature
that allow us to reduce all that boilerplate code.
We're going to take a look now at a feature
that was introduced in Java 14
that's very celebrated by Java developers.
So if we take a look at this unit test,
you'll notice that I'm creating a Cat record
that's going to cause a null pointer exception,
because I haven't specified a name for the Cat.
Now, if we execute the unit test,
you'll notice that the console output
will simply throw a null pointer exception.
You've probably debugged these many of times.
We don't get a lot of information.
It could be pretty time consuming.
If we go into the run configuration for our unit test,
we're able to add an argument here
that will cause more detailed information
to be displayed in the event of a null pointer exception.
So here you see
the argument is -XX:+ShowcCodeDetailsnExceptionMessages
and once we add that and run our unit test,
if we now inspect the console output,
you'll notice we get a little bit more information
and if we scroll to the right,
you'll see that this output will specifically tell us
that it is the name field on the Cat record
that is null.
Think about how much time that could save you
when debugging an issue.
Okay, we're going to move on now
to take a look at some changes
that were made to the switch statement in Java 14.
So here you'll see a switch statement that I've constructed
to determine my cats feeding time.
She has some odd feeding hours
and she's very demanding about being fed on time.
So I want to keep track of it.
Now you'll notice that she's being fed at 2:00, 16:00
and 21:00.
In Java 14 we can take these multiple case labels
and specify them on a single line
with the new syntax that's allowed.
So here you can see I put two, 16
and 21 on the same case line
and that will compile
and let's go ahead, execute our unit test
to see if it's feeding time.
Now you're going to notice we got an error in our test.
Let's take a look.
So it was two
and then if we take a look at our switch statement,
you can see what happened.
We encountered the classic problem of fall through.
We didn't specify a break statement.
So we fell down to our default statement
and assigned our Boolean the value of false.
In Java 14, we got the new arrow syntax
that can help us avoid this.
Using the arrow syntax
we just put an arrow to the right of our cases
and point to the code we'd like to execute in the event
that the cases are true in our switch statement.
Now, if we use the arrow syntax,
we do have to use it uniformly across our switch statement.
So we're going to have to modify our default case as well
and now once we put that in place,
you'll see we can go ahead
and successfully execute our switch statement.
So everything we just talked about was a switch statement.
Now Java 14 also gave us the switch expression.
I'm going to go ahead and open our files
that can help us demonstrate the switch expression.
So here you'll see our previous switch statement
and we're going to go ahead
and modify this to make it a switch expression.
The big difference between a switch statement
and a switch expression is
that the switch expression is able to return a result.
So you can see I'm able to assign the results
of our switch expression to our Boolean value.
Now we no longer have to make these assignments
to the Boolean value.
So I'm going to go ahead and remove these assignments
and we just use the arrow syntax to point
to the value we would like to return
from our switch expression
and that's going to cause it to be assigned
to our Boolean variable.
Now another thing that we can do,
because the switch expression does return a result.
We are able to simply put the return statement here
and we don't need to assign it to a variable.
If we would like to add some additional logic
when a case statement is triggered,
we can declare a block
and the block will allow us
to put that additional logic in place.
So I'm going to add a block here for our default case
and at this point,
you'll notice that we have a syntax error
and when we use a switch expression and it includes a block,
we need to use the yield statement
to return the result of executing our switch expression
and then within this block,
we're able to execute our logic as well.
So I'm just going to put a little bit of text in here.
We'll print to the console.
We'll say, is it feeding time yet?
Okay, so there you can see how we can add blocks
to a switch expression.
The important point here is that you need
to add the yield statement to return your result
from within the block.
You cannot use a yield statement in a switch statement.
These are only for switch expressions.
You'll get a compile error
if you attempt to use yield in the switch statement.
Okay, so with that in place, let's go ahead.
We can execute our unit test.
We see that it passes
and that completes our work for the lesson.
So that's a recap of some of the new exciting features
in Java 14 that are available to you
and some that are coming in a little bit.
Take some time to review these examples,
especially the changes to the switch statement
and the switch expressions.
It can be confusing to determine
which one you're working with at certain times.